docs/streaming.md, before:

# Streaming

### Why streaming?

If your aim is to take a snapshot of horse markets 3 minutes before the off and at post time, polling (listMarketBook) is a good solution. You will only hit the Betfair API endpoint 2 times per market.
But if you want to gather, process and react to data more frequently (e.g. in-play horse racing), polling is inefficient and the reason lies in the way HTTP works. Every time you hit a Betfair API endpoint:

- Your machine establishes a new connection with the Betfair server.
- It sends an HTTP request and receives and HTTP response.
- HTTP requests/responses carry headers, so more data is sent/received.

Streaming is more efficient because:

- The connection gets established once.
- From that moment, data keeps flowing from Betfair to your machine.
- There are no data overheads as you would have with polling / HTTP.
- This results in faster data and less CPU from your machine (and Betfair's)

The full docs can be found [here](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/display/1smk3cen4v3lu3yomq5qye0ni/Exchange+Stream+API)

### Market

A market stream can be created like so:


```python
import queue
import threading

import betfairlightweight
from betfairlightweight.filters import (
    streaming_market_filter,
    streaming_market_data_filter,
)

trading = betfairlightweight.APIClient("username", "password", app_key="appKey")
trading.login()

# create queue
output_queue = queue.Queue()

# create stream listener
listener = betfairlightweight.StreamListener(output_queue=output_queue)

# create stream
stream = trading.streaming.create_stream(listener=listener)

# create filters (GB WIN racing)
market_filter = streaming_market_filter(
    event_type_ids=["7"], country_codes=["GB"], market_types=["WIN"]
)
market_data_filter = streaming_market_data_filter(
    fields=["EX_BEST_OFFERS", "EX_MARKET_DEF"], ladder_levels=3
)

# subscribe
streaming_unique_id = stream.subscribe_to_markets(
    market_filter=market_filter,
    market_data_filter=market_data_filter,
    conflate_ms=1000,  # send update every 1000ms
)

# start stream in a new thread (in production would need err handling)
t = threading.Thread(target=stream.start, daemon=True)
t.start()

# check for updates in output queue
while True:
    market_books = output_queue.get()
    print(market_books)

    for market_book in market_books:
        print(
            market_book,
            market_book.streaming_unique_id,  # unique id of stream (returned from subscribe request)
            market_book.streaming_update,  # json update received
            market_book.market_definition,  # streaming definition, similar to catalogue request
            market_book.publish_time,  # betfair publish time of update
        )
```

### Order

!!! warning
    The order stream does not include matched positions, these can be found by making a getCurrentOrders request. However 'price point' matched backs and matched lays are stored in the order cache in matched_lays / matched_backs.

Order stream is similar to market:

```python
import queue
import threading

import betfairlightweight
from betfairlightweight.filters import streaming_order_filter

trading = betfairlightweight.APIClient("username", "password", app_key="appKey")
trading.login()

# create queue
output_queue = queue.Queue()

# create stream listener
listener = betfairlightweight.StreamListener(output_queue=output_queue)

# create stream
stream = trading.streaming.create_stream(listener=listener)

# create filters (GB WIN racing)
order_filter = streaming_order_filter()

# subscribe
streaming_unique_id = stream.subscribe_to_orders(
    order_filter=order_filter,
    conflate_ms=1000,  # send update every 1000ms
)

# start stream in a new thread (in production would need err handling)
t = threading.Thread(target=stream.start, daemon=True)
t.start()

# check for updates in output queue
while True:
    current_orders = output_queue.get()
    print(current_orders)
```

### Order - Matches

In addition to `orders` and the `moreAvailable` flag the streaming output has a `matches` field which contains a list of the selections with `matchedBacks` and `matchedLays`.

```python
>>> current_orders.matches
[<bettingresources.Match>, <bettingresources.Match>]
```

### Historical

Betfairlightweight can also handle historical streaming data that has been purchased from [Betfair](https://historicdata.betfair.com/#/home) or collected yourself. 

```python
>>> trading = betfairlightweight.APIClient("username", "password")

    # create listener
>>> listener = StreamListener(max_latency=None)

    # create historical stream, update file_path to file location
>>> stream = trading.streaming.create_historical_stream(
        file_path="/tmp/BASIC-1.132153978",
        listener=listener,
    )

    # start stream
>>> stream.start()
```

!!! tip
    The streaming code is highly optimised however to further improve speed the `debug` and `update_clk` flag can be set to False on the listener `StreamListener(debug=False, update_clk=False)` however update_clk is required to be True when live streaming (resubscribe uses it).

The historical stream can be used in the same way as the market/order stream allowing backtesting / market processing.

It is also possible to return a generator instead which can be easier to use (no threads) and uses less ram:

```python
    # create historical generator stream, update directory to file location
>>> stream = trading.streaming.create_historical_generator_stream(
        file_path="/tmp/BASIC-1.132153978",
        listener=listener,
    )

    # create genertaor
>>> g = stream.get_generator()

>>> for market_books in g():
        print(market_books)
        
[<MarketBook>]
..
```

### Snap

Instead of waiting for an update you can snap the listener to get an up to date version of the data.

```python
>>> market_books = listener.snap(
        market_ids=["1.12345323"]
    )
```

!!! tip
    The streaming unique id is returned in the marketBook / orderBook which allows multiple streams to be differentiated if multiple streams feed into the same queue.
    
    ```
    market_book.streaming_unique_id
    ```

### Resubscribe

If you have lost connection and need to resubscribe (prevents a full image being sent) you can provide the following:

```python
>>> streaming_unique_id = stream.subscribe_to_markets(
        market_filter=market_filter,
        market_data_filter=market_data_filter,
        conflate_ms=1000,  # send update every 1000ms
        initial_clk=listener.initial_clk,
        clk=listener.clk,
    )
```

### Error Handling

When used in production it is recommended not to start the stream in a new thread and forgot about it, it will break, errors need to be caught. 

Please see the example [examplestreamingerrhandling.py](https://github.com/liampauling/betfair/blob/master/examples/examplestreamingerrhandling.py)

Sometimes betfair will suspend the stream via the use of a status=503 update, more info [here](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/display/1smk3cen4v3lu3yomq5qye0ni/Exchange+Stream+API#ExchangeStreamAPI-StreamAPIStatus-latency), when the stream is receiving this update the `listener.status` will be updated:

```python
>>> listener.status
503
```

### Listener

You can create a custom listener by overriding the listener class:

```python
import betfairlightweight


class MyListener(betfairlightweight.StreamListener):
    def on_data(self, raw_data: str) -> Optional[bool]:
        print(raw_data)


custom_listener = MyListener()
```

### Logging

In order to debug the stream update the logging level to DEBUG:

```python
import logging

logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)
```

!!! tip
    By default `max_latency` is set to 0.5, this means a warning will be logged if the latency between the publishTime and your machines time is greater than this number. Often you will need to check that your clock is up to date, however this can be removed by setting `max_latency=None` when initializing the listener.

Commit message:

#417 handle betfair historic data with listener flags

docs/streaming.md, after:

# Streaming

### Why streaming?

If your aim is to take a snapshot of horse markets 3 minutes before the off and at post time, polling (listMarketBook) is a good solution. You will only hit the Betfair API endpoint 2 times per market.
But if you want to gather, process and react to data more frequently (e.g. in-play horse racing), polling is inefficient and the reason lies in the way HTTP works. Every time you hit a Betfair API endpoint:

- Your machine establishes a new connection with the Betfair server.
- It sends an HTTP request and receives and HTTP response.
- HTTP requests/responses carry headers, so more data is sent/received.

Streaming is more efficient because:

- The connection gets established once.
- From that moment, data keeps flowing from Betfair to your machine.
- There are no data overheads as you would have with polling / HTTP.
- This results in faster data and less CPU from your machine (and Betfair's)

The full docs can be found [here](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/display/1smk3cen4v3lu3yomq5qye0ni/Exchange+Stream+API)

### Market

A market stream can be created like so:


```python
import queue
import threading

import betfairlightweight
from betfairlightweight.filters import (
    streaming_market_filter,
    streaming_market_data_filter,
)

trading = betfairlightweight.APIClient("username", "password", app_key="appKey")
trading.login()

# create queue
output_queue = queue.Queue()

# create stream listener
listener = betfairlightweight.StreamListener(output_queue=output_queue)

# create stream
stream = trading.streaming.create_stream(listener=listener)

# create filters (GB WIN racing)
market_filter = streaming_market_filter(
    event_type_ids=["7"], country_codes=["GB"], market_types=["WIN"]
)
market_data_filter = streaming_market_data_filter(
    fields=["EX_BEST_OFFERS", "EX_MARKET_DEF"], ladder_levels=3
)

# subscribe
streaming_unique_id = stream.subscribe_to_markets(
    market_filter=market_filter,
    market_data_filter=market_data_filter,
    conflate_ms=1000,  # send update every 1000ms
)

# start stream in a new thread (in production would need err handling)
t = threading.Thread(target=stream.start, daemon=True)
t.start()

# check for updates in output queue
while True:
    market_books = output_queue.get()
    print(market_books)

    for market_book in market_books:
        print(
            market_book,
            market_book.streaming_unique_id,  # unique id of stream (returned from subscribe request)
            market_book.streaming_update,  # json update received
            market_book.market_definition,  # streaming definition, similar to catalogue request
            market_book.publish_time,  # betfair publish time of update
        )
```

### Order

!!! warning
    The order stream does not include matched positions, these can be found by making a getCurrentOrders request. However 'price point' matched backs and matched lays are stored in the order cache in matched_lays / matched_backs.

Order stream is similar to market:

```python
import queue
import threading

import betfairlightweight
from betfairlightweight.filters import streaming_order_filter

trading = betfairlightweight.APIClient("username", "password", app_key="appKey")
trading.login()

# create queue
output_queue = queue.Queue()

# create stream listener
listener = betfairlightweight.StreamListener(output_queue=output_queue)

# create stream
stream = trading.streaming.create_stream(listener=listener)

# create filters (GB WIN racing)
order_filter = streaming_order_filter()

# subscribe
streaming_unique_id = stream.subscribe_to_orders(
    order_filter=order_filter,
    conflate_ms=1000,  # send update every 1000ms
)

# start stream in a new thread (in production would need err handling)
t = threading.Thread(target=stream.start, daemon=True)
t.start()

# check for updates in output queue
while True:
    current_orders = output_queue.get()
    print(current_orders)
```

### Order - Matches

In addition to `orders` and the `moreAvailable` flag the streaming output has a `matches` field which contains a list of the selections with `matchedBacks` and `matchedLays`.

```python
>>> current_orders.matches
[<bettingresources.Match>, <bettingresources.Match>]
```

### Historical

Betfairlightweight can also handle historical streaming data that has been purchased from [Betfair](https://historicdata.betfair.com/#/home) or collected yourself. 

```python
>>> trading = betfairlightweight.APIClient("username", "password")

    # create listener
>>> listener = StreamListener(max_latency=None)

    # create historical stream, update file_path to file location
>>> stream = trading.streaming.create_historical_stream(
        file_path="/tmp/BASIC-1.132153978",
        listener=listener,
    )

    # start stream
>>> stream.start()
```

!!! tip
    The streaming code is highly optimised however to further improve speed the `debug` and `update_clk` flag can be set to False on the listener `StreamListener(debug=False, update_clk=False)` however update_clk is required to be True when live streaming (resubscribe uses it).

The historical stream can be used in the same way as the market/order stream allowing backtesting / market processing.

It is also possible to return a generator instead which can be easier to use (no threads) and uses less ram:

```python
    # create historical generator stream, update directory to file location
>>> stream = trading.streaming.create_historical_generator_stream(
        file_path="/tmp/BASIC-1.132153978",
        listener=listener,
    )

    # create genertaor
>>> g = stream.get_generator()

>>> for market_books in g():
        print(market_books)
        
[<MarketBook>]
..
```

!!! tip
    When using betfair purchased historical data the listener vars `calculate_market_tv` and `cumulative_runner_tv` are required to access `totalMatched` in the market and runner books (depending on data package)

### Snap

Instead of waiting for an update you can snap the listener to get an up to date version of the data.

```python
>>> market_books = listener.snap(
        market_ids=["1.12345323"]
    )
```

!!! tip
    The streaming unique id is returned in the marketBook / orderBook which allows multiple streams to be differentiated if multiple streams feed into the same queue.
    
    ```
    market_book.streaming_unique_id
    ```

### Resubscribe

If you have lost connection and need to resubscribe (prevents a full image being sent) you can provide the following:

```python
>>> streaming_unique_id = stream.subscribe_to_markets(
        market_filter=market_filter,
        market_data_filter=market_data_filter,
        conflate_ms=1000,  # send update every 1000ms
        initial_clk=listener.initial_clk,
        clk=listener.clk,
    )
```

### Error Handling

When used in production it is recommended not to start the stream in a new thread and forgot about it, it will break, errors need to be caught. 

Please see the example [examplestreamingerrhandling.py](https://github.com/liampauling/betfair/blob/master/examples/examplestreamingerrhandling.py)

Sometimes betfair will suspend the stream via the use of a status=503 update, more info [here](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/display/1smk3cen4v3lu3yomq5qye0ni/Exchange+Stream+API#ExchangeStreamAPI-StreamAPIStatus-latency), when the stream is receiving this update the `listener.status` will be updated:

```python
>>> listener.status
503
```

### Listener

You can create a custom listener by overriding the listener class:

```python
import betfairlightweight


class MyListener(betfairlightweight.StreamListener):
    def on_data(self, raw_data: str) -> Optional[bool]:
        print(raw_data)


custom_listener = MyListener()
```

### Logging

In order to debug the stream update the logging level to DEBUG:

```python
import logging

logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)
```

!!! tip
    By default `max_latency` is set to 0.5, this means a warning will be logged if the latency between the publishTime and your machines time is greater than this number. Often you will need to check that your clock is up to date, however this can be removed by setting `max_latency=None` when initializing the listener.
